.TH awkcc 1 "August 26, 1988"
.SH NAME
awkcc \- an awk-to-C translator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
awkcc [-JVBb] [-o outfile] [-c cprogfile] [-u var]* awkprog
.PP
a.out [-F [ ] delimiter] [ [var=value]* [files]* ]*
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B awkcc
reads the \fIawk\fP program in
.B awkprog,
then creates a C program in
.B awker.c.
This program is then compiled with a library libAWK.a, and an 
executable file is placed in
.B a.out.
.PP
.B a.out
may be invoked as \fIawk\fP may be invoked, with the exception of the
"-f program" option.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The options to 
.B awkcc 
are:
.IP "-b"
This option makes 
.B awkcc 
create programs that line buffer all 
output from "print" or "printf".  Normally, compiled programs
buffer their output to everything but the terminal.
.IP "-B"
This option (currently the default) causes 
.B awkcc 
write programs that 
buffer their output.
.IP "-J"
If your program is very large, the assembler may suggest this
option. "-J" causes the assembler to use long branches instead
of byte-displacement branches.
.IP "-V"
The "verbose" option reports somewhat cryptically on various
things the user may find interesting.
.IP "-o outfile"
Normally, 
.B awkcc 
places a working program in
.I a.out.
With this option,
.I outfile
is used instead.
.IP "-c cprogfile"
Normally, 
.B awkcc 
places its C program text in
.I awker.c.
This option tells 
.B awkcc 
to use the
.B cprogfile
instead.
.IP "-u var"
Prevents certain optimizations on
.I var
which can cause command-line assignment to function incorrectly.
Because this could become tedious, lines in the \fIawk\fP script of the
form "#awkcchint -u var" will accomplish the same thing,
while remaining invisible to the interpreter.  #awkcchint works
for the other options also.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
If file "nwc.awk" contains
.PP
	{ words+=NF } ; END { print FILENAME ":", NR, words }
.PP
then the compilation can be performed with
.PP
	awkcc -o nwc -c nwc.c nwc.awk
.PP
and one can then invoke
.PP
	nwc -F: /etc/passwd
.PP
and so on.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Usually the same as those \fIawk\fP emits.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
awk(1), cc(1), ranlib(1), yacc(1), lex(1)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
J. Christopher Ramming 
