.nr I 1
.\"  NUM REG "I" ACTIVATES RDS 4.0-SPECIFIC TEXT WHEN SET TO 0
.\"  TO DISABLE RDS 4.0 PROJ-SPECIFIC TEXT, CHANGE I VALUE TO 1
.\"  (I.E.:   .nr I 1)
.\"
.ie \nI=0 \{\
.TH AWKCC 1 "" "RDS Standard"
\}
.el \{
.TH awkcc 1 "local      April 5, 1987"
\}
.SH NAME
awkcc \- a nawk-to-C translator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f3awkcc [\-JVBb] [\-o \f2outfile\fP] [\-c \f2cprogfile\fP] [\-f \f2ccflag\fP] [\-u \f2var\fP]* \f2nawkprog\fP
.PP
\f3a.out [\-F [ ] \f2delimiter\fP] [ [\f2var\fP=\f2value\fP]* [\f2files\fP]* ]*
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I awkcc
reads the \fInawk\fP program in
.I nawkprog,
then creates a C program in
.I awker.c.
This program is then compiled with a library \f3libAWK.a\fP, and an 
executable file is placed, by default, in
.I a.out
file.
.PP
The
.I a.out
command
may be invoked with the same command-line options as \fInawk\fP,
with the exception of \f2nawk\f1's
\f3\-f \f2program\f1 option.
.sp 0.5
\f3Note about \-f\|/\-F options:\f1
.br
The \f3\-f\f1 option of \f2nawk\f1 can be used only with
\f2nawk\f1.  The \f3\-F\f1 option of
\f2nawk\f1 can be used both with \f2nawk\f1 and with \f2a.out\f1.
 
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The options to 
.I awkcc 
are:
.IP "\f3\-b\fP"
Translates \f2nawk\f1's \f3print\f1 and \f3printf\f1
statements to the C function \f2printf\f1(3S).
Normally, \f2printf\f1(3S)
buffers the output to everything but the terminal.
.IP "\f3\-B\fP"
Causes 
.I awkcc 
to write programs that do not
buffer their output.  This is the default behavior.
.\" (CURRENTLY THE DEFAULT) ???
.IP "\f3\-J\fP"
Causes the assembler to use long branches instead
of byte-displacement branches.
If your program is very large, the assembler may
suggest this option.
.IP "\f3\-V\f1"
``verbose'': reports somewhat cryptically on various
things the user may find interesting.
.IP "\f3\-o \f2outfile\fP"
Normally, 
.I awkcc 
places a working program in
.I a.out.
With this option,
.I outfile
is used instead.
.IP "\f3\-c \f2cprogfile\fP"
Normally, 
.I awkcc 
places its C program text in
.I awker.c.
This option tells
.I awkcc 
to use the
.I cprogfile
instead.
.IP "\f3\-f \f2ccflag\fP"
Allows 
.I awkcc 
to pass the
.I ccflag
\f3-TR\f1\f2t/l\f1
flag to the \f3UTS\f1 compiler, where
.I t
represents text base registers and
.I l
the number of literal base registers.  This flag speeds up the
compilation time only and will be ignored on all non-\f3UTS\f1
architectures.
.IP "\f3\-u \f2var\f1"
Prevents certain optimizations on
.I var
which can cause command-line assignment to function incorrectly.
Alternatively, lines in the \fInawk\fP script of the
form  \f3#awkcchint -u var\fP  will accomplish the same thing,
while remaining invisible to the interpreter.
\f3#awkcchint\fP works
for the other options also.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
If file \f2nwc.nawk\fP contains
.RS
.ft B
{words+=NF } ; END { print FILENAME ":", NR, words }
.ft R
.RE
then the compilation can be performed with
.RS
.ft B
awkcc \-o nwc \-c nwc.c nwc.awk
.ft R
.RE
and one can then invoke
.RS
.ft B
nwc \-F: /etc/passwd
.ft R
.RE
and so on.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
\f2awkcc\f1 issues the same error messages as \fInawk\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
nawk(1), cc(1), ranlib(1), yacc(1), lex(1).
.if \nI==2 \{\
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
J. Christopher Ramming (ulysses!jcr)
\}

.\"    Copyright (c) 1991 AT&T
.\"    All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"    Note: This software was created by the Bell Laboratories unit of AT&T.
.\"    Bell Laboratories was subsequently part of Lucent Technologies, later part of
.\"    Alcatel-Lucent, and now part of Nokia; some copyrights may have been assigned
.\"    by AT&T to its successors. This license is granted by Nokia solely to the
.\"    extent of its right to do so.
.\"
.\"    Filename: awkcc.1.
.\"
.\" "@(#)awkcc.1   version  40.1.2.3  RDS UNIX source.  Last delta: 7/25/91 10:11:17"
.\"
